# Finance Tracker App

This is a Finance Tracker application built with Flutter, designed to help users manage their expenses, income, and investments efficiently. The app supports multiple languages and provides features such as adding transactions, calculating net worth, and viewing an overview of financial activities.

## Features

- **Expense Management:** Add, edit, and delete expense entries. Categorize expenses for better tracking.
- **Income Management:** Track all income sources, categorize them, and manage them effectively.
- **Investment Tracking:** Add, edit, and manage investments. The app calculates the current value of investments based on real-time data.
- **Net Worth Calculation:** Automatically calculate your net worth based on your expenses, income, and investments.
- **Localization:** The app supports multiple languages, including English, Portuguese, Spanish, and French.
- **Dark Mode Support:** The app adapts to the system's theme and provides a user-friendly interface in both light and dark modes.
- **Real-Time Data:** Fetch real-time stock prices and cryptocurrency values to keep your investment data accurate.
- **QR Code Upload to Web Dashboard:** Scan a QR code generated by the Finance Dashboard web application to upload and visualize your financial data in real-time on a web-based interface.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Flutter SDK:** Make sure you have Flutter installed on your system. You can download it from the [Flutter's official website](https://flutter.dev/).
- **Dart SDK:** Dart is required as Flutter uses Dart as its programming language.
- **API Keys:** 
  - The app uses the Finnhub API for fetching real-time financial data. Obtain an API key from [Finnhub](https://finnhub.io/) and replace the placeholder key in the `FinnhubService` class.
  - The app uses the Coingecko API for fetching real-time cryptocurrency data. Obtain an API key from [Coingecko](https://www.coingecko.com/) and replace the placeholder key in the `CryptoService` class.

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/finance-tracker.git
    cd finance-tracker
    ```

2. **Install Flutter dependencies:**

    ```bash
    flutter pub get
    ```

3. **Run the app:**

    Ensure a device is connected or an emulator is running, then execute:

    ```bash
    flutter run
    ```

### Setting Up QR Code Upload

To use the QR code upload functionality:

1. **Ensure the Finance Dashboard web application is running.** 

   - The web application can be started by following the instructions in its [README file](https://github.com/ManuelCLopes/finance_dashboard/blob/main/README.md).

2. **Open the Finance Tracker app on your mobile device.**

3. **Navigate to the QR code scanning feature in the app.**

4. **Scan the QR code displayed on the Finance Dashboard web interface to upload your financial data.**

5. **View Data on Web:** Once the data is uploaded, the web dashboard will automatically refresh to display the updated charts, giving you a comprehensive view of your financial activities.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request for any features or bug fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgements

- **Finnhub API** for real-time financial data.
- **Coingecko API** for real-time cryptocurrency data.
- **Flutter** for the mobile application framework.
- **Finance Dashboard Web App** for data visualization.
